[Music]
all right so i was in the middle of
testing and reviewing some of these new
rtx 30 series gaming laptops
and i realized that there was a very
important message that i had to share
with my audience
and it's not just for now this is
probably going to last the entire year
so i thought i'd make this video just
real short and sweet for
my audience and hopefully for other
people that are just looking into this
stuff
to understand what's going on
traditionally when it came to gaming
laptops nvidia's
naming mechanism or naming
pattern was pretty easy to follow right
like a gtx 1060 laptop
was good and then a gtx 1070 laptop was
better and then a gtx 1080 laptop would
theoretically be the best right and
there's obviously variance between the
three different classes based on the
manufacturer but a consumer would be
able to identify
which one should be good better best
pretty clearly it is not the case
anymore
there's a couple reasons i'll get into
it briefly but
at this point with the new rtx 30 series
you can have rtx 3060 laptops
that can match or possibly outperform
rtx 3070 laptops and the reason being
is because of wattage at this point
nvidia doesn't require the manufacturers
or the oems
to label their gpus as like you know a
max-q variant or
max p variant there's none of that
anymore it's this somewhat ambiguous
just the rtx
3060 or the rtx 3070 and it's up to
the manufacturer to choose how much
wattage they pump into that gpu
and that heavily effects like really
heavily affects
the performance you get on those devices
so you can have
an rtx 30 let's say you have an rtx 3070
and you pump 85 watts into it and then
you have another device that's an
awesome rtx
3070 and you pump i don't know 125 130
watts
into it the performance is vastly
different but from the consumer side
you have no idea what's going on you
could you just see this device that has
an rtx 3070
so you have to rely heavily on
publications or youtube
videos to discover the actual
performance of these devices now
traditionally
if you're watching this video chances
are you're gonna you're gonna be looking
to this stuff
anyways but you just you need to
way more this year than any other year
before now
the knee-jerk reaction to this is right
when you first see this when i first
heard this
i thought is this is this like malicious
is this some
insidious plan from nvidia to just rip
people off
and there might be like an element of
marketing like it does benefit
certain manufacturers they can kind of
hide
their weaker thermal systems behind this
new naming mechanism
but there are some companies that would
benefit from this if you're a
manufacturer who consistently puts in
high wattage gpus
now you can flex that a little bit
harder i do think that there is a real
reason
like an engineering reason as to why
this has happened so every couple of
years when nvidia comes out with a new
family of graphics chips
the wattage increases ever so slightly
but it just keeps going up right
and if you look at the size of like
desktop gpus if you look at the size of
like
the 900 series to the 10 series the 20
series 30 series they've just gotten
thicker and thicker
to the point now we have like two inch
thick triple slot gpus that are like
founders editions from nvidia it's crazy
they've gotten
way more energy consumptive and also
there's
tools and mechanisms that you need to
get rid of that heat
desktops can deal with that relatively
easily right you can just throw in some
fans you can do some stuff to make it
better laptops
they don't have that option we can't
make these things bigger or not we but
people can't make these things bigger
and if you look at the ac adapters it's
not like the ac adapters on these
devices on gaming laptops we've gotten
bigger
if you look at razer do it i don't have
oh i do have a razor here
their ac adapter has been the same size
it's been 180 watts or 200 watts i
forget the exact number but
it's the same ac adapter for years at
this point because they don't
they can't change it right you can't
have a 300 watt
gaming laptop this size you just can't
do it
so i think the thermal constraints or
the thermal limitations of
building a laptop has almost required
this weird shift in how
gaming laptop gpus have to be named like
there's no real easy solution to this
the the only real way that it can see
this
being fixed and being really clear to
consumers is if they completely dump
the whole like the whole naming system
of using the same name as the desktop
chip
for laptops they shouldn't do it it just
makes it really
unclear to the consumer like if you're
uninformed you might think an rtx
3080 desktop gpu performs like a 3080
laptop like it clearly doesn't because
we're informed but for a lot of people
they don't know that
and i think that naming mechanism has
become
more difficult to adopt as time goes by
so
it needs to be changed but this new
system like
we're seeing with the new 30 series
laptops it's super confusing and i have
to say as a reviewer
it makes it difficult like now i have to
have to inform my audience in basically
every video that something like this is
happening
so i think you have to be aware of the
wattage of every single
gpu that's in these devices if you're
interested in purchasing one
now there's no easy solution to this
like i said but what i'm going to
try to do to help you guys and just
people that are interested in
making a purchase decision is i will
keep a
list or some kind of like spreadsheet
real simple
just have a list of the devices with
their wattage for the gpu and maybe like
throw in a single benchmark just to keep
it real simple
and yeah i'll link it down below as i
get devices because i do get
a lot of gaming laptops like this is
what this channel
covers a lot of so i'll do my best to
try to update it to keep you guys
informed
but yeah if you're looking to buy one be
extra diligent on doing your research
this year okay hope you guys enjoyed
this video
thumbs you liked it subs if you loved it
i'll see you guys next time